# Password-Security-Project-Hashing-and-Dictionary-Attack-Simulation
# Overview
This project demonstrates the implementation of password security techniques in Python, including password hashing with salts and a simulation of dictionary attacks on hashed passwords. It's designed as an educational tool to understand the basics of password hashing and the effectiveness of dictionary attacks in breaching password security.

## Features
- `imposta_password.py`: A script that simulates the process of creating a hashed password with a salt. It takes a username and password and stores them in a hashed format in `passwords.txt`.
- `attacco_dizionario.py`: A script that simulates a dictionary attack on the hashed passwords stored in `passwords.txt`, using a wordlist provided in `dizionario.txt`.

## Installation
To run this project, you need Python installed on your system. Clone the repository to your local machine using:

'''
[git clone ](https://github.com/emanueleiacca/Password-Security-Project-Hashing-and-Dictionary-Attack-Simulation.git)
'''

## Usage
1. Run `imposta_password.py` to generate hashed passwords:
   
'''
python imposta_password.py
'''

3. Run `attacco_dizionario.py` to attempt a dictionary attack on the hashed passwords:
   
'''
python attacco_dizionario.py
'''

## Dictionary
The dictionary.txt was created using Crunch, a wordlist generator based on specific patterns. The file was generated by a user on the web, and in case you want to create a custom set, Crunch can generate all the possible combinations of a provided character set, be it numbers, letters, or symbols, within a specified minimum and maximum length.

[Dictionary file can be found here](https://cyber-drops.com/2020/07/17/attacco-a-dizionario/) , it needs to be installed manually since it was too big to uplaod it on Github

## Disclaimer
This project is for educational purposes only. Please use the information and code responsibly and ethically.
